---
title: Champion Cynthia
date: 2020-10-07
type: "posts"
tags: ["piano", "youtube"]
---

{{< youtube tFrHxj6Cipc >}}

**https://youtu.be/tFrHxj6Cipc**

I basically grew up on Pokemon games. And if there's one thing I can tell you about the video game series, _you will know_ when you're about to against a formidable opponent. The music will let you know.

Hailing from "the land of piano", Champion Cynthia is no exception. Leading an arsenal of powerful Pokemon that the player likely haven't encountered up to that point, she descends to her throne as the final opponent at the Sinnoh League, ready to crush the player's dreams.

This piece is the prelude leading up to the battle - the countdown to the end 😂

It's one of the most memorable tunes coming out of Diamond/Pearl/Platinum. I believe it was from this game when Go Ichinose started to take on a more involved role in Game Freak's music production for the series (compared to Junichi Matsuda spearheading that prior), and this piece definitely highlighted the difference in their styles at the time.

This cover is based on two independent renditions of this song:

- [Approaching Champion Cynthia Piano Etude](https://youtu.be/FRZ9cUEF0NE) by Eric C 'Piano Man'

- ["Prelude to the Champion" Solo Classical Piano](https://youtu.be/HNWU4X9lqDQ) by insaneintherainmusic feat. Kara Comparetto

I came across those two while looking for inspiration, and both caught my attention because they _extended_ the original. Listening to Eric C's extension gave me vibes of an epic battle, and got me thinking: what if this prelude _was_ the battle music (instead of [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rXefFHRgyE0)).

Kara's somber reinterpretation made me wonder about the _individual_ - what runs through Cynthia's mind as she takes on the challenger? What does she fight for, and what did she have to overcome to get to where she is?

Both were stimulating and I could not choose which to cover - so I ended up combining the two (cue "Porque no los dos?"). My cover includes all of Eric C's rendition, and uses segments from insaneintherainmusic's [sheet](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1vmO9F2CIEAfgrG1fZyui5YTY2FjXoLRd/view) as the coda: A modified M25~32 and M41(end accel) to the end, played at relatively faster tempo.

I obviously had a difficult time with the piece. Some of the challenges were:

- The furious tempo throughout the piece (but actually, the original is FASTER :sob:)

- Wide left-hand arpeggios. This can be seen at the offset (0:03~0:22) as well as the middle section (0:33~0:45). The latter required some interesting fingerings and sometimes uncomfortable stretches of the hand.

- Dynamics - the original piece actually maintains a pretty level sound volume throughout, but thought it'd be natural to mix that up. This is notable in (0:22~0:33).

- Pedaling - this piece made me think a lot about pedaling. I wanted to retain a "crisper" texture on the some segments of the piece (including the "dancing right hands" parts) and ended up opting for the sostenuto pedal for the base note in those places to prevent over-muddling, rather than the sustain pedal. This required a bit of mental effort when combined with the dynamics aspect, having to keep track of the timings for soft pedal as well.
