---
title: new leaf
date: 2020-04-09
type: "posts"
---

> Being polite is good, but being active is as important.
> If you don't say anything, the things you want won't appear right before you.

> -- a wise friend

Those were the words of my _wise friend_, who wrote to me years ago. You may remember that I shared them with you too.
To this day, I still find myself scared to embrace those words. But there are also times when painfully I realize what he meant.
Especially in the past several months.

While the thought of reaching back to him and the group was always somewhere in my mind since I left them, in light of everything that happened with you I felt that maybe the current me can actually do it. I want to apologize for all of my mistakes, and start moving forward again.

But can I really do this? After all, _I struggled so much to do this with you (and I still do)._

I somehow put together the words "I would like to talk to you again sometime."

They were willing to listen.

I told them everything I couldn't tell almost three years ago.
That all it was back then was that I didn't understand _why_ I was feeling angry, neglected, disrespected, scared.
That it all really came down to was my jealousy on what I used to think they had (that I didn't have), and the fear of rejection if I were to have expressed it.
That cutting them out of my life was the best that the former me could do to take care of myself.
I couldn't believe it when they expressed happiness about me sharing these things with them.

Time and space gave all of us new perspective - it was great to hear a bit of what they learned about themselves and others as well.
I guess we all have our invisible issues to deal with.
In the near future, I hope to reconnect with them more.

<br/>

> This is the courage that you gave me

Maybe it wasn't directly so, but I wouldn't be back in this state without the interactions I had with you. You helped me build it. Thank you. I continue my best to keep improving.
