---
title: Eonian
date: 2020-12-25
type: "posts"
tags: ["piano", "youtube"]
---

{{< youtube zApesb8vqdk >}}

**https://youtu.be/zApesb8vqdk**

_Based on the Animenz arrangement: [Video](https://youtu.be/XUuvTRBwdy0), [Sheets](https://sheet.host/sheet/uxpBSY)_.

I remember the first time I heard Animenz's cover of this in 2015, the second chorus (~2:48) gave me goosebumps! It had been on my mind ever since to learn to play this someday.

The movie itself is pretty good IMO. It got a bit of attention back when it came out for using 3DCG, and also because it was screen-written by the one and only [Urobucher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gen_Urobuchi). At the least, it was thought provoking, with an interesting world view, and EONIAN playing as an insert at the end of the movie was very memorable.

The piece features two of the most challenging phrases I've come across so far! Measures 52~55 employs a left hand "sound wall", composed of chord inversions broken into sixteenth notes, requiring a bit of left hand strength. Measures 56~59 is the most difficult of the several "three-hand techniques" scattered across the piece. A swap in ownership of (melody <-> modified arpeggio) between the left and right hands is repeated four times! Not an exaggeration to say more than two-thirds of the practice time was spent on those eight measures alone 😅.

When playing songs, in my mind it usually develops story-first, and then visuals will follow; in other words, the focus is on the "words". This time around though, I noticed I was focusing on the imagery, and the lyrics playing more of a supporting role. With this song, I somehow internalized this tighter coupling between certain landscapes/sceneries/cutscenes with the words/feelings - perhaps a residual effect of select visuals from the movie resonating with me. The barren wastelands, the lone flower, the lush forests, the soft fresh snow, the never-ending sky. Were you able to see them?
