---
title: ßios (YT)
date: 2020-04-23
type: "posts"
---

{{< youtube 5il_kB_4L2s >}}


#### Notes

**https://youtu.be/5il_kB_4L2s**

_Based on the Animenz arrangement: [Video](https://youtu.be/DcjUOdeq6G8), [Sheets](https://sheet.host/sheet/1uMLWW)_.

Another shot at this song! This time with the new recording environment (and no pressure from live streaming 😅), and also with a _new me_ having gone through some internal turmoil (see the rant posts before this lol).

[Post from previous attempt](/posts/2019-10-13_bios/)

Outside of the recording quality, this take is arguably not so much better than my previous run, but there are several changes that I'd note as improvements. First, a fix on how I was playing the "slashing" left hands on measures 10-17; I had modified it slightly in the live version as I was struggling with the strong bass on the off-beat. Second, a modification to use arpeggio fingering on measures 24-25 that helped play that segment a bit more smoothly. Third, the overall pace throughout the song is closer to Animenz's, although it was difficult to keep it up on the climax section starting measure 80.

There are also several intentional minor changes from the transcription as a personal touch. This includes a few octave shifts on some segments in which I thought would sound better in a lower register, a more tender playing of the closing of the middle section (65-69) to invoke a sense of "disappearance" / "fading away", and dissonance and an "absence" of resolution in the closing measures starting on m94.

A reason I enjoy learning Animenz transcriptions (outside of how they are songs from series I like) is because they expose techniques that I lack proficiency in. In the case of [くちづけDiamond](/posts/2020-02-14_weaver/), it exposed my inaccuracy with left hand jumps. Similarly with Bios, I realized the need to develop fast *and* accurate arpeggio playing. I'd like to maintain this mental map of Animenz transcriptions as etudes for different techniques, and revisit frequently them to improve my skills.
