---
title: 虹の列車 / Niji no Ressha
date: 2020-06-29
type: "posts"
tags: ["piano", "youtube"]
---

{{< youtube qpgKnphVYQo >}}

**https://youtu.be/qpgKnphVYQo**

_Based on the Animenz arrangement: [Video](https://youtu.be/ZFXbGYsZmMA), [Sheets](https://sheet.host/sheet/rCEOnB)_.

I love the [lyrics](http://stage48.net/studio48/nijinoressha.html) of these 0048 songs! This one in particular is high energy and catchy, and I also kinda like its use of the "canon progression".

This is one of the more difficult Animenz pieces I've learned to date, and also one of the most fun to play! As usual, there is a story, and I've added a custom intro that marks a personal _turning_ point, a new beginning, a departure... and then dove right in:

- Measure 7-10 looks tame but is actually one of the most difficult segments of the piece with the "three-hand technique", and took some practice getting it right.

- Measure 18 takes a big jump down to the lower registers to really build up into the chorus. My favorite part!

- M23-25 was really difficult, having to bounce back and forth between the melody notes and a complementary note. Animenz refers to this as "double voice jumps". I had to leave out some chord notes to play it at the tempo of the song.

- My left hand was _not ready_ for M27-28 😂. I simplified this into something a bit more manageable.

- M29-30 combines fast arpeggios with left hand melody playing. The tempo did not make this easy, and I struggled with the volume here as the right ended up overpowering the left.

- Finally, M41-end is just so marvelously crafted by Animenz and an amazing way to close it out. Left hand melody playing is not new, but becomes a lot harder when your right hand has to sprint up and down like that!
